# Jan 31st Software Design Class: #

## CHAPTER 5: AGILE DEVELOPMENT ######################################

**Agile Development**
    *Manifesto*
        - Individuals and Interactions > Processes and Tools 
        - Working Software             > Comprehensive Documentation
        - Customer Collaboration       > Contract Negotiation
        - Responding to Change         > Following a Plan
    *Agility*
        - Effective Response to Change
        - Effective Communication among all Stakeholders
        - Drawing the Customer onto the Team 
        - Organizing a Team so that it is in control of the Workload
        - Rapid, Incremental Delivery of Software   
        `The Cost of Change` -> MINIMIZED in Agile Process
    *Agile Process*
        - Driven by Customer Descriptions of what is required
        - Recognized that plans are Short-Lived
        - Develops software Iteratively w/ emphasis on Construction 
            - Delivers multiple 'Software Increments'
        - Adapts as Changes occur
        `Agility Principles` Ch 5 pg 6-7 (I'm not writing that lol...)
    *Human Factors*
        - Process MOLDS TO THE NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE/TEAM 
        - key traits necessary in people/team:
              competence, common focus, collaboration, decision-making
              general problem-solving, mutual trust/respect,
              self-organization

**Extreme Programming (XP)**
    - (was once the) most widely adpoted agile process, by Ken Beck
    *XP Planning*
        1. create `user stories` to visualize program use
        2. agile team assesses stories & assigns a `cost` to each
        3. stories are grouped to form a `deliverable increment`
        4. a `commitment` is made on the delivery date
        5. after 1st-increment, `project velocity` is important:
            - helps define subsequent delivery dates for increments
    *XP Design*
        - follows the `KIS Princple`
        - encourages the use of `CRC Cards` (Chapter 8)
        - difficult problems -> suggest `spike solutions`  (prototype)
        - encourages `refactoring`   (refining program design process)
    *XP Coding*
        - Recommends the `construction of a unit test` Before coding
        - encourages `pair programming` (1 person codes, 1 watches)
    *XP Testing*
        - All `unit tests are executed daily`
        - `Acceptance Tests` are defined by the customer
            - executed to asses customer visible functionality
    **THE WHOLE XP METHOD**
        1.`Planning`(user stories, values, iteration plan, test setup)
        2.`Design`   (simple design, CRC, spike solutions, prototypes)
        3.`Coding`     (pair programming, unit-test cont. integration)
            a. Refactoring
        4.`Testing`  (unit-test cont. integration, acceptance-testing)
            a. Release Software Increment    (proj. velocity computed)

**Adaptive Software Development(ASD)**
    - proposed by Jiom Highsmith 
    *ASD Distinguishing Features*
        - `mission-driven` planning
        - `component-based` focus
        - uses `time-boxing` (Chapter 24)
        - explicit consideration of `risks`
        - emphasizes `collaboration` for requirements gathering
        - emphasizes `learning` throughout the process
    *ASD Model*
        1. Speculation
        2. Collaboration
        3. Learning 
            a. Release Software Increment 
    
**SCRUM**
    - proposed by Schwaber and Beedle
    *SCRUM Distinguishing Features*
        - dev work is partitioned into `packets`
        - `testing & documentation are ongoing` as project is built 
        - works occurs in `sprints` and is derived from a `backlog`
            - backlog -> existing requirements are kept on-tab
        - `meetings are very short` and sometimes without chairs!
        - `demos` are delivered to customer w/ allocated time box

**Crystal**
    - proposed by Cockburn and Highsmith
    *Crystal Distinguishing Features*
        - actually a `family of process models` 
            - allows for `manuverability` based on problem cases
        - `face to face communication` is emphasized
        - suggest the use of `reflection workshops` 
            - review work habits of the team

**Feature Driven Development (FDD)**
    - proposed by Peter Coad 
    *FDD Distinguishing Features*
        - emphasis on defining `features`:
            "is a client-valued function that- 
            -can be implemented in two weeks or less"
        - uses a `feature template`:
            - ex: <action> the <result> <by | for | of | to > <object>
        - `features list` is created, `plan by feature` is conducted 
        - design and construction merge in FDD

**Agile Modeling**
    - proposed by Scott Ambler
    *Agile Modeling Principles*
        - model with a purpose
        - use multiple models
        - travel light
        - content is more important than representation
        - know the models and the tools you use to create them 
        - adapt locally 

## CHAPTER 10: CONCEPTION ############################################

**Understanding Requirements**
    *Engineering Requirements*
        - `Inception`: ask a set of questions that establish:
            1. basic understanding of problem
            2. the people who want a solution
            3. the nature of the solution that is desired, and
            4. the effectiveness of communication btwn. dev & customer
        - `Elicitation`: elicit requirements from all stakeholders
        - `Elaboration`: create an analysis model that identifies
            data, function, and behavioral req.s
        - `Negotiation`: agree on deliverable system that is realistic
        - `Specification`: some medium to base discussion on:
            ex: written doc.s, set of modes/use-cases,...
        - `Validation`: review mechanisms that look for 
            errors, unclarified areas, missing info, conflicts,... 
        - `Requirements Management`: self-explanatory
        *Inception*
            - Identify Stakeholders
                - who else do you think I should talk to?
            - Recognize multiple points of view
            - Work towards collaboration
            - `The First Questions`:
                - who is behind the work request?
                - who will use the solution?
                - what will be the economic benefit of the solution?
                - is there another source for the solution you need?
        *Eliciting Requirements*
            - meetings are conducted/attended by Customers & Dev.s 
            - rules for prep. & participation are established
            - an agenda is suggested
            - a "facilitatior" (anyone) controls the meeting
            - a "definition mechanism" (medium for presenting) is used
            - `the goal`:
                1. Identify the Problem
                2. Propose Elements of the Solution
                3. Negotiate Different Approaches, and 
                4. Specify a Preliminary Set of Solution Req.s
        *Quality Function Development*
            - `Function Development` determines the "value" of func.s
                value is perceived by the Customer
            - `Information Deployment` identifies data objects/events
            - `Task Deployment` examines the behavior of the system
            - `Value Analysis` determines a relative priority of req.s
        *Elicitation Work Products*
            - statement of need and feasibility
            - bound statement of scope for system/project
            - list of customers/users/stakeholders who're involved
            - description of the system's tech. environment
            - list of requirements & their personal domain constraints
            - a set of usage scenarios that provide insight into use 
            - any prototypes developed to better-define requirements
    
**Building the Analysis Model:**
    *Functional Requirements:*
        `scenario-based elements`: descriptions of use-cases
            - also, processing narratives for software functions
           `class-based elements`: implied by scenarios / modeled
            `behavioral elements`: state diagram
         `flow-oriented elements`: data flow diagram
    *Non-Functional Requirements:*
        `define system attributes`: what do different var/func.s do???
        `security`: can endure common classes of attacks
        `reliability`: 99% uptime, no crashing, address failures
        `performance`: target platforms, concurrent users, metrics etc
        `maintainability`: regular updates, content rotation, extenda-
        `scalability`: ability to deal with demand fluctuations timely
        `usability`: user experience, reduce friction, best UI prac.s
    *Use-Cases*
        - a collection of user-scenarios that describe the sys.s usage
        - each scenario is from the "POV" of an "Actor"
        - [Scenarios]: Ch 10 page 10 (I'm not writing that)
    **Diagrams**
        *Class Diagram*
            - Table Categories: 
                - Name, Variable Names, Functions
        *State Diagram*
            - Table Categories:
                - Name, Variable Values, Activities
    *Analysis Patterns*
        - Elements:
            `Pattern Name`
            `Intent`
            `Motivation`: scenario showing how the pattern is useful
            `Forces and Context`: external issue & use-case setting   
            `Solution`
            `Consequences`: What happens when it is applied?
            `Design`
            `Known Uses`
            `Related Patterns`: is this a common type of pattern use? 
    *Negotiating Requirements*
        - `identify the key stakeholders`
        - `determine each of the stakeholders "win-con.s" `
            not always obv.
        - `Negotiate`
            work towards req.s set that is a "win-win"
    
**Validating Requirements**
    - is each requirement consistent w/ overall objective for product?
    - have all requirements been specified to the proper abstractions?
    - is the requirement necessary? or is it more of an add-on?
    - is each req. bounded or unambiguous?
    - does each req. have attribution(s) for importance?
    - is each req. achievable in it's respective environment?
    - does the req.s model properly reflect the system application?
    - have req. patterns been used to simplify the req.s model?
